packages/shared-config/readme.md, before:

<!--+ Warning: Content inside HTML comment blocks was generated by mdat and may be overwritten. +-->

<!-- title { prefix: "🔬 " } -->

# 🔬 @kitschpatrol/shared-config

<!-- /title -->

<!-- badges -->

[![NPM Package @kitschpatrol/shared-config](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@kitschpatrol/shared-config.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

<!-- /badges -->

<!-- description -->

**A collection of shared configurations for various linters and formatting tools. All managed as a single dependency, and invoked via a single command.**

<!-- /description -->

<!-- table-of-contents { depth: 2 } -->

## Table of contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Implementation notes](#implementation-notes)
- [Development notes](#development-notes)
- [Background](#background)
- [License](#license)

<!-- /table-of-contents -->

## Overview

This project attempts to consolidate most of the configuration and tooling shared by my open-source and internal TypeScript / Node based projects into a single dependency with a single CLI meta-command to lint and fix issues.

By installing `@kitschpatrol/shared-config` and then running `kpsc`, you can run a half-dozen pre-configured code quality and linting tools in one shot. This spares you from cluttering your project's `devDependencies` with packages tangential to the task at hand.

If you don't plan to customize tool configurations, `@kitschpatrol/shared-config init` exposes an option to store references to each tool's shared configuration in your `package.json` instead of in files in your project root (at least where permitted by the tool). This can save a bit of file clutter in your project's root directory, at the expense of the immediate discoverability of the tools.

In addition, each tool exports a typed configuration factory function to simplify specifying and extending the default configuration.

### Tools

It takes care of dependencies, configuration, invocation, and reporting for the following tools:

- [ESLint](https://eslint.org) (including Svelte, Astro, React, and TypeScript support — including type-checked rules)
- [Prettier](https://prettier.io) (including a bunch of extra plugins)
- [Stylelint](https://stylelint.io)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) (including a shared TSConfig)
- [CSpell](https://cspell.org) (bundled with a number of custom dictionaries, and a custom unused-word detector)
- [Case Police](https://github.com/antfu/case-police)
- [Knip](https://knip.dev/)
- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) (extension recommendations and extension settings)
- [Mdat](https://github.com/kitschpatrol/mdat) (my markdown templating and expansion tool)
- [remarklint](https://github.com/remarkjs/remark-lint)
- Basic repo boilerplate (`.npmrc`, `.gitignore`, etc.)

### Packages

This particular readme is for the [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config) package, which depends on a number of tool-specific packages included in the [`kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://github.com/kitschpatrol/shared-config) monorepo on GitHub, each of which is documented in additional detail its respective readme.

#### Primary package

- [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](/packages/shared-config/readme.md) (`kpsc` command)

#### Sub-packages

- [`@kitschpatrol/cspell-config`](/packages/cspell-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-cspell` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/eslint-config`](/packages/eslint-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-eslint` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/knip-config`](/packages/knip-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-knip` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/mdat-config`](/packages/mdat-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-mdat` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/prettier-config`](/packages/prettier-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-prettier` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/remark-config`](/packages/remark-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-remark` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/repo-config`](/packages/repo-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-repo` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/stylelint-config`](/packages/stylelint-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-stylelint` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/typescript-config`](/packages/typescript-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-typescript` command)

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> Any of these packages may be installed and run on their own via CLI if desired. However, in general, the idea is to use `@kitschpatrol/shared-config` to easily run them all simultaneously over a repo with a single command with options to either check or (where possible) fix problems, with output aggregated into a single report.

Running `kpsc <command>` calls the same command across the entire collection of sub-packages.

So assuming you've installed `@kitschpatrol/shared-config`...

Running:

```sh
kpsc init
```

Is the same as running:

```sh
kpsc-cspell init
kpsc-eslint init
kpsc-knip init
kpsc-mdat init
kpsc-prettier init
kpsc-remark init
kpsc-repo init
kpsc-stylelint init
kpsc-typescript init
```

The top-level `kpsc` command also takes care of some nuances in terms of _which_ sub-packages implement _which_ commands, and which subcommands take arguments.

## Getting started

### Dependencies

Node 22+ and [pnpm](https://pnpm.io) 10+ are required. It might work with NPM and yarn, but I haven't tested it.

### Installation

#### Quick start from scratch:

Bootstrap a new project and open in VS Code:

```sh
git init && pnpm init && pnpm pkg set type="module" && pnpm dlx @kitschpatrol/repo-config init && pnpm add -D @kitschpatrol/shared-config && pnpm kpsc init --location package && pnpm i && code .
```

The `--location package` flag will put as much configuration in your `package.json` as possible instead of in discrete files in your project root. This saves some clutter but can make it clunkier to extend or customize configurations. At any point, you can call `kpsc init` with or without a `--location package` or `--location file` flag to reinitialize your configuration files in one place ot he other to.

#### Quick add to an existing project:

This might overwrite certain config files, so commit first:

```sh
pnpm dlx @kitschpatrol/repo-config init && pnpm i && pnpm add -D @kitschpatrol/shared-config && pnpm kpsc init --location package
```

#### Step-by-step:

1. Install the requisite `.npmrc`:

   ```sh
   pnpm dlx @kitschpatrol/repo-config init
   ```

2. Install the package:

   ```sh
   pnpm add -D @kitschpatrol/shared-config
   ```

3. Add default config files for all the tools to your project root:

   ```sh
   pnpm kpsc init
   ```

   Or, if you don't plan to customize tool configurations, you might want to put as much config as possible under tool-specific keys in 'package.json':

   ```sh
   pnpm kpsc init --location package
   ```

4. Add helper scripts to your `package.json`:

   These work a bit like [npm-run-all](https://github.com/mysticatea/npm-run-all) to invoke all of the bundled tools.

   ```json
   {
     "scripts": {
       "fix": "kpsc fix",
       "lint": "kpsc lint"
     }
   }
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > Prettier formatting for Ruby requires some extra legwork to configure, see [`the @kitschpatrol/prettier-config` package readme](https://github.com/kitschpatrol/shared-config/blob/main/packages/prettier-config/readme.md) for more details.

5. Set up GitHub action credentials (if desired)

   The GitHub actions included in @kitschpatrol/repo-config require permissions to create releases and update your repository metadata. You can add these through the GitHub website under the _Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions_ page under the key `PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN`, or with the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) and a credential manager like [1Password CLI](https://developer.1password.com/docs/cli/get-started/):

   ```sh
   gh secret set PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN --app actions --body $(op read 'op://Personal/GitHub Mika/PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN')
   ```

   See the [@kitschpatrol/repo-config readme](/packages/repo-config/readme.md#github-configuration) for more details.

## Usage

Various VS Code plugins for the bundled tools should "just work".

To check / lint your entire project, after configuring the `package.json` as shown above:

```sh
pnpm run lint
```

To run all of the tools in a _potentially destructive_ "fix" capacity:

```sh
pnpm run fix
```

### CLI

<!-- cli-help cliCommand: 'kpsc' -->

#### Command: `kpsc`

Run shared config commands

This section lists top-level commands for `kpsc`.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc <command>
```

| Command        | Argument    | Description                                                                                   |
| -------------- | ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `init`         |             | Initialize by copying starter config files to your project root or to your package.json file. |
| `lint`         | `[files..]` | Lint the project                                                                              |
| `fix`          | `[files..]` | Fix the project                                                                               |
| `print-config` | `[file]`    | Print the configuration                                                                       |

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

_See the sections below for more information on each subcommand._

#### Subcommand: `kpsc init`

Initialize by copying starter config files to your project root or to your package.json file.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc init
```

| Option              | Description         | Type                 | Default  |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- | -------- |
| `--location`        | TK                  | `"file"` `"package"` | `"file"` |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean`            |          |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean`            |          |

#### Subcommand: `kpsc lint`

Lint the project

Usage:

```txt
kpsc lint [files..]
```

| Positional Argument | Description                    | Type    | Default |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------ | ------- | ------- |
| `files`             | Files or glob pattern to lint. | `array` | `[]`    |

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

#### Subcommand: `kpsc fix`

Fix the project

Usage:

```txt
kpsc fix [files..]
```

| Positional Argument | Description                   | Type    | Default |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------- | ------- | ------- |
| `files`             | Files or glob pattern to fix. | `array` | `[]`    |

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

#### Subcommand: `kpsc print-config`

Print the configuration

Usage:

```txt
kpsc print-config [file]
```

| Positional Argument | Description                 | Type     |
| ------------------- | --------------------------- | -------- |
| `file`              | File or glob pattern to TK. | `string` |

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

<!-- /cli-help -->

Recall that the `@kitschpatrol/shared-config` package aggregates integration and invocation of the other tool-specific packages in this monorepo. Running a cli command on `kpsc` effectively runs the same command against all the tool-specific packages.

## Implementation notes

### `check` vs `lint`

This project combines a mix of tools that regard their core task variously as "linting" or "checking" code and prose.

Across all the tools, I've chosen to use the term "lint" instead of "check" to refer to the read-only evaluation process.

### Package architecture

Each package has a simple `/src/cli.ts` file which defines the behavior of its eponymous binary. The build step turns these into node "binary" scripts, providing default implementations where feasible.

The monorepo must be kept intact, as the sub-packages depend on scripts in the parent during build.

### Hoisting caveats

The pnpm authors consider module hoisting harmful, and I tend to agree, but certain exceptions are carved out as necessary and accommodated via the `.npmrc` file included in `@kitschpatrol/repo-config`:

- CSpell, remark, mdat, ESLint, and Prettier all need to be hoisted via `public-hoist-pattern` to be accessible in `pnpm exec` scripts and to VS Code plugins.

- Even basic file-only packages like `repo-config` seem to need to be hoisted via for their bin scripts to be accessible via `pnpm exec`

- In earlier version of pnpm, `prettier` and `eslint` packages were hoisted by default, but as of pnpm 10 this is [no longer the case](https://github.com/pnpm/pnpm/releases/tag/v10.0.0).

## Development notes

The repo uses placeholders for the bin script for each tool to avoid circular dependency issues during `pnpm install`.

To tell git to ignore changes to the placeholders, run `pnpm run bin-ignore`.

For local development via `pnpm`, use `file:` dependency protocol instead of `link:`

Something to investigate: An [approach](https://github.com/antfu/eslint-config#vs-code-support-auto-fix) to ignoring style rules in VS Code, and possibly migrate all style handling to eslint instead of prettier.

## Background

### Motivation

[`xo`](https://github.com/xojs/xo) is really, really close to what I'm after here, but I wanted a few extra tools and preferred to use "first party" VS Code plugins where possible.

[`create-typescript-app`](https://github.com/JoshuaKGoldberg/create-typescript-app) is also excellent, and probably the best starting point for most people for most new projects. However, it does not take a "single top-level dependency" / "single unified CLI" approach.

[`antfu/eslint-config`](https://github.com/antfu/eslint-config) and [`@sxzz/eslint-config`](https://github.com/sxzz/eslint-config) inspired the approach to ESLint integration.

### Adjacent projects

- [@voxpelli/eslint-config](https://github.com/voxpelli/eslint-config)
- [1stG/configs](https://github.com/1stG/configs)
- [antfu/eslint-config](https://github.com/antfu/eslint-config)
- [awesome-eslint](https://github.com/dustinspecker/awesome-eslint)
- [create-typescript-app](https://github.com/JoshuaKGoldberg/create-typescript-app)
- [envsa/shared-config](https://github.com/envsa/shared-config) (Liam Rella's fork of `@kitschpatrol/shared-config`)
- [eslint-config-current-thing](https://github.com/GildedPleb/eslint-config-current-thing) _(Smart!)_
- [eslint-config-hyperse](https://github.com/hyperse-io/eslint-config-hyperse)
- [lass](https://lass.js.org) (xo etc.)
- [megalinter](https://github.com/oxsecurity/megalinter) (Multi-language.)
- [neostandard](https://github.com/neostandard/neostandard)
- [NullVoxPopuli/eslint-configs](https://github.com/NullVoxPopuli/eslint-configs)
- [qlty](https://github.com/qltysh/qlty) (Multi-language.)
- [routine-npm-packages](https://github.com/kachkaev/routine-npm-packages) and [example](https://github.com/kachkaev/website)
- [sheriff](https://www.eslint-config-sheriff.dev)
- [standard](https://standardjs.com)
- [sxzz/eslint-config](https://github.com/sxzz/eslint-config)
- [trunk](https://trunk.io)
- [ts-reset](https://github.com/mattpocock/ts-reset)
- [tsconfig/bases](https://github.com/tsconfig/bases/tree/main)
- [vscode-file-nesting-config](https://github.com/antfu/vscode-file-nesting-config)
- [xo](https://github.com/xojs/xo)
- [TanStack Config](https://tanstack.com/config/latest)
- [Complete](https://complete-ts.github.io/)
- [vercel/style-guide](https://github.com/vercel/style-guide)
- [ZumerBox](https://github.com/zumerlab/zumerbox)

<!-- license -->

## License

[MIT](license.txt) © Eric Mika

<!-- /license -->

Commit message:

Update readmes with new CLI help.

packages/shared-config/readme.md, after:

<!--+ Warning: Content inside HTML comment blocks was generated by mdat and may be overwritten. +-->

<!-- title { prefix: "🔬 " } -->

# 🔬 @kitschpatrol/shared-config

<!-- /title -->

<!-- badges -->

[![NPM Package @kitschpatrol/shared-config](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@kitschpatrol/shared-config.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

<!-- /badges -->

<!-- description -->

**A collection of shared configurations for various linters and formatting tools. All managed as a single dependency, and invoked via a single command.**

<!-- /description -->

<!-- table-of-contents { depth: 2 } -->

## Table of contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Implementation notes](#implementation-notes)
- [Development notes](#development-notes)
- [Background](#background)
- [License](#license)

<!-- /table-of-contents -->

## Overview

This project attempts to consolidate most of the configuration and tooling shared by my open-source and internal TypeScript / Node based projects into a single dependency with a single CLI meta-command to lint and fix issues.

By installing `@kitschpatrol/shared-config` and then running `kpsc`, you can run a half-dozen pre-configured code quality and linting tools in one shot. This spares you from cluttering your project's `devDependencies` with packages tangential to the task at hand.

If you don't plan to customize tool configurations, `@kitschpatrol/shared-config init` exposes an option to store references to each tool's shared configuration in your `package.json` instead of in files in your project root (at least where permitted by the tool). This can save a bit of file clutter in your project's root directory, at the expense of the immediate discoverability of the tools.

In addition, each tool exports a typed configuration factory function to simplify specifying and extending the default configuration.

### Tools

It takes care of dependencies, configuration, invocation, and reporting for the following tools:

- [ESLint](https://eslint.org) (including Svelte, Astro, React, and TypeScript support — including type-checked rules)
- [Prettier](https://prettier.io) (including a bunch of extra plugins)
- [Stylelint](https://stylelint.io)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) (including a shared TSConfig)
- [CSpell](https://cspell.org) (bundled with a number of custom dictionaries, and a custom unused-word detector)
- [Case Police](https://github.com/antfu/case-police)
- [Knip](https://knip.dev/)
- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) (extension recommendations and extension settings)
- [Mdat](https://github.com/kitschpatrol/mdat) (my markdown templating and expansion tool)
- [remarklint](https://github.com/remarkjs/remark-lint)
- Basic repo boilerplate (`.npmrc`, `.gitignore`, etc.)

### Packages

This particular readme is for the [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config) package, which depends on a number of tool-specific packages included in the [`kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://github.com/kitschpatrol/shared-config) monorepo on GitHub, each of which is documented in additional detail its respective readme.

#### Primary package

- [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](/packages/shared-config/readme.md) (`kpsc` command)

#### Sub-packages

- [`@kitschpatrol/cspell-config`](/packages/cspell-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-cspell` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/eslint-config`](/packages/eslint-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-eslint` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/knip-config`](/packages/knip-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-knip` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/mdat-config`](/packages/mdat-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-mdat` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/prettier-config`](/packages/prettier-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-prettier` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/remark-config`](/packages/remark-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-remark` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/repo-config`](/packages/repo-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-repo` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/stylelint-config`](/packages/stylelint-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-stylelint` command)
- [`@kitschpatrol/typescript-config`](/packages/typescript-config/readme.md) (`kpsc-typescript` command)

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> Any of these packages may be installed and run on their own via CLI if desired. However, in general, the idea is to use `@kitschpatrol/shared-config` to easily run them all simultaneously over a repo with a single command with options to either check or (where possible) fix problems, with output aggregated into a single report.

Running `kpsc <command>` calls the same command across the entire collection of sub-packages.

So assuming you've installed `@kitschpatrol/shared-config`...

Running:

```sh
kpsc init
```

Is the same as running:

```sh
kpsc-cspell init
kpsc-eslint init
kpsc-knip init
kpsc-mdat init
kpsc-prettier init
kpsc-remark init
kpsc-repo init
kpsc-stylelint init
kpsc-typescript init
```

The top-level `kpsc` command also takes care of some nuances in terms of _which_ sub-packages implement _which_ commands, and which subcommands take arguments.

## Getting started

### Dependencies

Node 22+ and [pnpm](https://pnpm.io) 10+ are required. It might work with NPM and yarn, but I haven't tested it.

### Installation

#### Quick start from scratch:

Bootstrap a new project and open in VS Code:

```sh
git init && pnpm init && pnpm pkg set type="module" && pnpm dlx @kitschpatrol/repo-config init && pnpm add -D @kitschpatrol/shared-config && pnpm kpsc init --location package && pnpm i && code .
```

The `--location package` flag will put as much configuration in your `package.json` as possible instead of in discrete files in your project root. This saves some clutter but can make it clunkier to extend or customize configurations. At any point, you can call `kpsc init` with or without a `--location package` or `--location file` flag to reinitialize your configuration files in one place ot he other to.

#### Quick add to an existing project:

This might overwrite certain config files, so commit first:

```sh
pnpm dlx @kitschpatrol/repo-config init && pnpm i && pnpm add -D @kitschpatrol/shared-config && pnpm kpsc init --location package
```

#### Step-by-step:

1. Install the requisite `.npmrc`:

   ```sh
   pnpm dlx @kitschpatrol/repo-config init
   ```

2. Install the package:

   ```sh
   pnpm add -D @kitschpatrol/shared-config
   ```

3. Add default config files for all the tools to your project root:

   ```sh
   pnpm kpsc init
   ```

   Or, if you don't plan to customize tool configurations, you might want to put as much config as possible under tool-specific keys in 'package.json':

   ```sh
   pnpm kpsc init --location package
   ```

4. Add helper scripts to your `package.json`:

   These work a bit like [npm-run-all](https://github.com/mysticatea/npm-run-all) to invoke all of the bundled tools.

   ```json
   {
     "scripts": {
       "fix": "kpsc fix",
       "lint": "kpsc lint"
     }
   }
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > Prettier formatting for Ruby requires some extra legwork to configure, see [`the @kitschpatrol/prettier-config` package readme](https://github.com/kitschpatrol/shared-config/blob/main/packages/prettier-config/readme.md) for more details.

5. Set up GitHub action credentials (if desired)

   The GitHub actions included in @kitschpatrol/repo-config require permissions to create releases and update your repository metadata. You can add these through the GitHub website under the _Settings → Secrets and variables → Actions_ page under the key `PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN`, or with the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) and a credential manager like [1Password CLI](https://developer.1password.com/docs/cli/get-started/):

   ```sh
   gh secret set PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN --app actions --body $(op read 'op://Personal/GitHub Mika/PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN')
   ```

   See the [@kitschpatrol/repo-config readme](/packages/repo-config/readme.md#github-configuration) for more details.

## Usage

Various VS Code plugins for the bundled tools should "just work".

To check / lint your entire project, after configuring the `package.json` as shown above:

```sh
pnpm run lint
```

To run all of the tools in a _potentially destructive_ "fix" capacity:

```sh
pnpm run fix
```

### CLI

<!-- cli-help cliCommand: 'kpsc' -->

#### Command: `kpsc`

Run aggregated @kitschpatrol/shared-config commands.

This section lists top-level commands for `kpsc`.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc <command>
```

| Command        | Argument    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `init`         |             | Initialize configuration files for the entire suite of @kitschpatrol/shared-config tools. Will use option flags where possible if provided, but some of the invoked tools will ignore them. |
| `lint`         | `[files..]` | Fix your project with multiple tools in one go. Will use file arguments / globs where possible if provided, but some of the invoked tools only operate at the package-scope.                |
| `fix`          | `[files..]` | Fix your project with multiple tools in one go. Will use file arguments / globs where possible if provided, but some of the invoked tools only operate at the package-scope.                |
| `print-config` | `[file]`    | Print aggregated tool configuration data. Will use file arguments / globs where possible if provided, but some of the invoked tools only operate at the package-scope.                      |

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

_See the sections below for more information on each subcommand._

#### Subcommand: `kpsc init`

Initialize configuration files for the entire suite of @kitschpatrol/shared-config tools. Will use option flags where possible if provided, but some of the invoked tools will ignore them.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc init
```

| Option              | Description         | Type                 | Default  |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- | -------- |
| `--location`        | TK                  | `"file"` `"package"` | `"file"` |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean`            |          |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean`            |          |

#### Subcommand: `kpsc lint`

Fix your project with multiple tools in one go. Will use file arguments / globs where possible if provided, but some of the invoked tools only operate at the package-scope.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc lint [files..]
```

| Positional Argument | Description                    | Type    | Default |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------ | ------- | ------- |
| `files`             | Files or glob pattern to lint. | `array` | `[]`    |

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

#### Subcommand: `kpsc fix`

Fix your project with multiple tools in one go. Will use file arguments / globs where possible if provided, but some of the invoked tools only operate at the package-scope.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc fix [files..]
```

| Positional Argument | Description                   | Type    | Default |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------- | ------- | ------- |
| `files`             | Files or glob pattern to fix. | `array` | `[]`    |

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

#### Subcommand: `kpsc print-config`

Print aggregated tool configuration data. Will use file arguments / globs where possible if provided, but some of the invoked tools only operate at the package-scope.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc print-config [file]
```

| Positional Argument | Description                 | Type     |
| ------------------- | --------------------------- | -------- |
| `file`              | File or glob pattern to TK. | `string` |

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

<!-- /cli-help -->

Recall that the `@kitschpatrol/shared-config` package aggregates integration and invocation of the other tool-specific packages in this monorepo. Running a cli command on `kpsc` effectively runs the same command against all the tool-specific packages.

## Implementation notes

### `check` vs `lint`

This project combines a mix of tools that regard their core task variously as "linting" or "checking" code and prose.

Across all the tools, I've chosen to use the term "lint" instead of "check" to refer to the read-only evaluation process.

### Package architecture

Each package has a simple `/src/cli.ts` file which defines the behavior of its eponymous binary. The build step turns these into node "binary" scripts, providing default implementations where feasible.

The monorepo must be kept intact, as the sub-packages depend on scripts in the parent during build.

### Hoisting caveats

The pnpm authors consider module hoisting harmful, and I tend to agree, but certain exceptions are carved out as necessary and accommodated via the `.npmrc` file included in `@kitschpatrol/repo-config`:

- CSpell, remark, mdat, ESLint, and Prettier all need to be hoisted via `public-hoist-pattern` to be accessible in `pnpm exec` scripts and to VS Code plugins.

- Even basic file-only packages like `repo-config` seem to need to be hoisted via for their bin scripts to be accessible via `pnpm exec`

- In earlier version of pnpm, `prettier` and `eslint` packages were hoisted by default, but as of pnpm 10 this is [no longer the case](https://github.com/pnpm/pnpm/releases/tag/v10.0.0).

## Development notes

The repo uses placeholders for the bin script for each tool to avoid circular dependency issues during `pnpm install`.

To tell git to ignore changes to the placeholders, run `pnpm run bin-ignore`.

For local development via `pnpm`, use `file:` dependency protocol instead of `link:`

Something to investigate: An [approach](https://github.com/antfu/eslint-config#vs-code-support-auto-fix) to ignoring style rules in VS Code, and possibly migrate all style handling to eslint instead of prettier.

## Background

### Motivation

[`xo`](https://github.com/xojs/xo) is really, really close to what I'm after here, but I wanted a few extra tools and preferred to use "first party" VS Code plugins where possible.

[`create-typescript-app`](https://github.com/JoshuaKGoldberg/create-typescript-app) is also excellent, and probably the best starting point for most people for most new projects. However, it does not take a "single top-level dependency" / "single unified CLI" approach.

[`antfu/eslint-config`](https://github.com/antfu/eslint-config) and [`@sxzz/eslint-config`](https://github.com/sxzz/eslint-config) inspired the approach to ESLint integration.

### Adjacent projects

- [@voxpelli/eslint-config](https://github.com/voxpelli/eslint-config)
- [1stG/configs](https://github.com/1stG/configs)
- [antfu/eslint-config](https://github.com/antfu/eslint-config)
- [awesome-eslint](https://github.com/dustinspecker/awesome-eslint)
- [create-typescript-app](https://github.com/JoshuaKGoldberg/create-typescript-app)
- [envsa/shared-config](https://github.com/envsa/shared-config) (Liam Rella's fork of `@kitschpatrol/shared-config`)
- [eslint-config-current-thing](https://github.com/GildedPleb/eslint-config-current-thing) _(Smart!)_
- [eslint-config-hyperse](https://github.com/hyperse-io/eslint-config-hyperse)
- [lass](https://lass.js.org) (xo etc.)
- [megalinter](https://github.com/oxsecurity/megalinter) (Multi-language.)
- [neostandard](https://github.com/neostandard/neostandard)
- [NullVoxPopuli/eslint-configs](https://github.com/NullVoxPopuli/eslint-configs)
- [qlty](https://github.com/qltysh/qlty) (Multi-language.)
- [routine-npm-packages](https://github.com/kachkaev/routine-npm-packages) and [example](https://github.com/kachkaev/website)
- [sheriff](https://www.eslint-config-sheriff.dev)
- [standard](https://standardjs.com)
- [sxzz/eslint-config](https://github.com/sxzz/eslint-config)
- [trunk](https://trunk.io)
- [ts-reset](https://github.com/mattpocock/ts-reset)
- [tsconfig/bases](https://github.com/tsconfig/bases/tree/main)
- [vscode-file-nesting-config](https://github.com/antfu/vscode-file-nesting-config)
- [xo](https://github.com/xojs/xo)
- [TanStack Config](https://tanstack.com/config/latest)
- [Complete](https://complete-ts.github.io/)
- [vercel/style-guide](https://github.com/vercel/style-guide)
- [ZumerBox](https://github.com/zumerlab/zumerbox)

<!-- license -->

## License

[MIT](license.txt) © Eric Mika

<!-- /license -->
