packages/prettier-config/readme.md, before:

<!--+ Warning: Content inside HTML comment blocks was generated by mdat and may be overwritten. +-->

<!-- title -->

# @kitschpatrol/prettier-config

<!-- /title -->

<!-- badges -->

[![NPM Package @kitschpatrol/prettier-config](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@kitschpatrol/prettier-config.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/prettier-config)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

<!-- /badges -->

<!-- description -->

**Prettier configuration for @kitschpatrol/shared-config.**

<!-- /description -->

## Overview

It's a shared [Prettier](https://prettier.io) config.

**See [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config) for the recommended single-package approach.**

## Setup

To use just this Prettier config in isolation:

1. Install the `.npmrc` in your project root. This is required for correct PNPM behavior:

   ```sh
   pnpm dlx @kitschpatrol/repo-config --init
   ```

2. Add the package:

   ```sh
   pnpm add -D @kitschpatrol/prettier-config
   ```

3. Add the starter `.prettierrc.js` and `.prettierignore` files to your project root, and add any customizations you'd like:

   ```sh
   pnpm exec prettier-config --init
   ```

## Usage

The Prettier binary should be picked up automatically by VS Code plugins.

You can call it directly, or use the script bundled with the config.

Integrate with your `package.json` scripts as you see fit, for example:

```json
"scripts": {
  "lint": "prettier-config --check"
  "format": "prettier-config --fix"
}
```

You might need to pass certain plugins in explicitly. The `shared-config --fix` and `shared-config --lint` scripts take care of this for you.

### CLI

<!-- cli-help -->

#### Command: `prettier-config`

Prettier configuration for @kitschpatrol/shared-config.

Usage:

```txt
prettier-config [<file|glob> ...]
```

| Option                   | Argument | Description                                                      |
| ------------------------ | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--check`<br>`-c`        |          | Check for and report issues. Same as `prettier-config`.          |
| `--fix`<br>`-f`          |          | Fix all auto-fixable issues, and report the un-fixable.          |
| `--init`<br>`-i`         |          | Initialize by copying starter config files to your project root. |
| `--print-config`<br>`-p` | `<path>` | Print the effective configuration at a certain path.             |
| `--help`<br>`-h`         |          | Print this help info.                                            |
| `--version`<br>`-v`      |          | Print the package version.                                       |

<!-- /cli-help -->

## Ruby support

Ruby formatting Expects a global Ruby install >=2.7 via `rbenv` at `~/.rbenv/shims/ruby` with the following gems:

- `bundler`
- `prettier_print`
- `syntax_tree`
- `syntax_tree-haml`
- `syntax_tree-rbs`

Note: Do _not_ add `plugins: ['prettier-plugin-ruby']` to the per-file scope, it must be global.

<!-- license -->

## License

[MIT](license.txt) © Eric Mika

<!-- /license -->

Commit message:

Add note on tabs vs. spaces in prettier-config readme.

packages/prettier-config/readme.md, after:

<!--+ Warning: Content inside HTML comment blocks was generated by mdat and may be overwritten. +-->

<!-- title -->

# @kitschpatrol/prettier-config

<!-- /title -->

<!-- badges -->

[![NPM Package @kitschpatrol/prettier-config](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@kitschpatrol/prettier-config.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/prettier-config)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

<!-- /badges -->

<!-- description -->

**Prettier configuration for @kitschpatrol/shared-config.**

<!-- /description -->

## Overview

It's a shared [Prettier](https://prettier.io) config.

**See [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config) for the recommended single-package approach.**

## Setup

To use just this Prettier config in isolation:

1. Install the `.npmrc` in your project root. This is required for correct PNPM behavior:

   ```sh
   pnpm dlx @kitschpatrol/repo-config --init
   ```

2. Add the package:

   ```sh
   pnpm add -D @kitschpatrol/prettier-config
   ```

3. Add the starter `.prettierrc.js` and `.prettierignore` files to your project root, and add any customizations you'd like:

   ```sh
   pnpm exec prettier-config --init
   ```

## Usage

The Prettier binary should be picked up automatically by VS Code plugins.

You can call it directly, or use the script bundled with the config.

Integrate with your `package.json` scripts as you see fit, for example:

```json
"scripts": {
  "lint": "prettier-config --check"
  "format": "prettier-config --fix"
}
```

You might need to pass certain plugins in explicitly. The `shared-config --fix` and `shared-config --lint` scripts take care of this for you.

### CLI

<!-- cli-help -->

#### Command: `prettier-config`

Prettier configuration for @kitschpatrol/shared-config.

Usage:

```txt
prettier-config [<file|glob> ...]
```

| Option                   | Argument | Description                                                      |
| ------------------------ | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--check`<br>`-c`        |          | Check for and report issues. Same as `prettier-config`.          |
| `--fix`<br>`-f`          |          | Fix all auto-fixable issues, and report the un-fixable.          |
| `--init`<br>`-i`         |          | Initialize by copying starter config files to your project root. |
| `--print-config`<br>`-p` | `<path>` | Print the effective configuration at a certain path.             |
| `--help`<br>`-h`         |          | Print this help info.                                            |
| `--version`<br>`-v`      |          | Print the package version.                                       |

<!-- /cli-help -->

## Ruby support

Ruby formatting Expects a global Ruby install >=2.7 via `rbenv` at `~/.rbenv/shims/ruby` with the following gems:

- `bundler`
- `prettier_print`
- `syntax_tree`
- `syntax_tree-haml`
- `syntax_tree-rbs`

Note: Do _not_ add `plugins: ['prettier-plugin-ruby']` to the per-file scope, it must be global.

## Tabs vs. spaces

Tabs are unambiguously preferred wherever the file format specification does not mandate spaces.

The reluctant exceptions are:

### JSON

Despite widely accepted FUD regarding JSON requiring spaces, the [specification](https://www.json.org/json-en.html) indicates otherwise.

### YAML

Spaces are required by the [specification](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2.2/#61-indentation-spaces).

### Markdown and MDX

Spaces are not technically required, but are specified in alignment with the [Remark project's conclusions](https://github.com/remarkjs/remark-lint/tree/main/packages/remark-lint-no-tabs#recommendation) and to prevent fragility in YAML frontmatter. _(TODO: Need 4 spaces instead of 2?)_

<!-- license -->

## License

[MIT](license.txt) © Eric Mika

<!-- /license -->
