packages/mdat-config/readme.md, before:

<!--+ Warning: Content inside HTML comment blocks was generated by mdat and may be overwritten. +-->

<!-- title -->

# @kitschpatrol/mdat-config

<!-- /title -->

<!-- badges -->

[![NPM Package @kitschpatrol/mdat-config](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@kitschpatrol/mdat-config.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/mdat-config)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

<!-- /badges -->

<!-- description -->

**MDAT configuration for @kitschpatrol/shared-config.**

<!-- /description -->

## Overview

It's a shared [MDAT (Markdown Autophagic Template)](https://github.com/kitschpatrol/mdat) system config, plus a command-line tool `kpsc-mdat` to perform mdat-related project initialization, linting, and fixing.

<!-- recommendation -->

> [!Important]
>
> **You can use this package on its own, but it's recommended to use [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config) instead for a single-dependency and single-package approach to linting and fixing your project.**
>
> This package is included as a dependency in [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config), which also automatically invokes the command line functionality in this package via its `kpsc` command

<!-- /recommendation -->

## Setup

To use just `mdat-config` in isolation:

1. Install the `.npmrc` in your project root. This is required for correct PNPM behavior:

   ```sh
   pnpm dlx @kitschpatrol/repo-config init
   ```

2. Add the package:

   ```sh
   pnpm add -D @kitschpatrol/mdat-config
   ```

3. Add the starter `.mdatrc.ts` file to your project root, and add any customizations you'd like:

   ```sh
   pnpm exec kpsc-mdat init
   ```

## Usage

The `mdat` binary is specified as a peer dependency, and should be installed up automatically by PNPM.

You can call it directly, or use the script bundled with the config.

Integrate with your `package.json` scripts as you see fit, for example:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "lint": "kpsc-mdat lint",
    "fix": "kpsc-mdat fix"
  }
}
```

"Fix" in this case is a slight misnomer for consistency with the other shared-config tools.

It runs `mdat readme expand` to expand placeholder comments in your readme.md using the bundled [`mdat readme`](https://github.com/kitschpatrol/mdat/blob/main/packages/mdat/readme.md#the-mdat-readme-subcommand) expansion rules, plus custom rules provided by `mdat-config`'s `mdat.config.ts` file, plus any additional rules specified in the repository-specific `.mdatrc.ts` file.

### Configuration

To create a `mdat.config.ts` in your project root:

```sh
pnpm exec kpsc-mdat init
```

(Note that this will delete the `mdat` property in your `package.json`!)

_Or_

To create a `mdat` property in `package.json`:

```sh
pnpm exec kpsc-mdat init --location package
```

(Note that this will delete the `mdat.config.ts` file in your project root!)

### CLI

<!-- cli-help -->

#### Command: `kpsc-mdat`

Expand content placeholders in your readme.md and other Markdown files.

This section lists top-level commands for `kpsc-mdat`.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc-mdat <command>
```

| Command        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `init`         | Initialize by copying starter config files to your project root or to your package.json file.                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `lint`         | Validate that all mdat content placeholders in your readme.md file(s) have been expanded. This package-scoped command searches for the readme.md adjacent the nearest package.json. In a monorepo, it will also find readmes in any packages below the current working directory. |
| `fix`          | Expand all mdat content placeholders in your readme.md file(s). This package-scoped command searches for the readme.md adjacent the nearest package.json. In a monorepo, it will also find readmes in any packages below the current working directory.                           |
| `print-config` | Print the Mdat configuration.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

_See the sections below for more information on each subcommand._

#### Subcommand: `kpsc-mdat init`

Initialize by copying starter config files to your project root or to your package.json file.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc-mdat init
```

| Option              | Description         | Type                 | Default  |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- | -------- |
| `--location`        | TK                  | `"file"` `"package"` | `"file"` |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean`            |          |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean`            |          |

#### Subcommand: `kpsc-mdat lint`

Validate that all mdat content placeholders in your readme.md file(s) have been expanded. This package-scoped command searches for the readme.md adjacent the nearest package.json. In a monorepo, it will also find readmes in any packages below the current working directory.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc-mdat lint
```

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

#### Subcommand: `kpsc-mdat fix`

Expand all mdat content placeholders in your readme.md file(s). This package-scoped command searches for the readme.md adjacent the nearest package.json. In a monorepo, it will also find readmes in any packages below the current working directory.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc-mdat fix
```

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

#### Subcommand: `kpsc-mdat print-config`

Print the Mdat configuration.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc-mdat print-config
```

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

<!-- /cli-help -->

<!-- license -->

## License

[MIT](license.txt) © Eric Mika

<!-- /license -->

Commit message:

Update readmes with new CLI help.

packages/mdat-config/readme.md, after:

<!--+ Warning: Content inside HTML comment blocks was generated by mdat and may be overwritten. +-->

<!-- title -->

# @kitschpatrol/mdat-config

<!-- /title -->

<!-- badges -->

[![NPM Package @kitschpatrol/mdat-config](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@kitschpatrol/mdat-config.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/mdat-config)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

<!-- /badges -->

<!-- description -->

**MDAT configuration for @kitschpatrol/shared-config.**

<!-- /description -->

## Overview

It's a shared [MDAT (Markdown Autophagic Template)](https://github.com/kitschpatrol/mdat) system config, plus a command-line tool `kpsc-mdat` to perform mdat-related project initialization, linting, and fixing.

<!-- recommendation -->

> [!Important]
>
> **You can use this package on its own, but it's recommended to use [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config) instead for a single-dependency and single-package approach to linting and fixing your project.**
>
> This package is included as a dependency in [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config), which also automatically invokes the command line functionality in this package via its `kpsc` command

<!-- /recommendation -->

## Setup

To use just `mdat-config` in isolation:

1. Install the `.npmrc` in your project root. This is required for correct PNPM behavior:

   ```sh
   pnpm dlx @kitschpatrol/repo-config init
   ```

2. Add the package:

   ```sh
   pnpm add -D @kitschpatrol/mdat-config
   ```

3. Add the starter `.mdatrc.ts` file to your project root, and add any customizations you'd like:

   ```sh
   pnpm exec kpsc-mdat init
   ```

## Usage

The `mdat` binary is specified as a peer dependency, and should be installed up automatically by PNPM.

You can call it directly, or use the script bundled with the config.

Integrate with your `package.json` scripts as you see fit, for example:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "lint": "kpsc-mdat lint",
    "fix": "kpsc-mdat fix"
  }
}
```

"Fix" in this case is a slight misnomer for consistency with the other shared-config tools.

It runs `mdat readme expand` to expand placeholder comments in your readme.md using the bundled [`mdat readme`](https://github.com/kitschpatrol/mdat/blob/main/packages/mdat/readme.md#the-mdat-readme-subcommand) expansion rules, plus custom rules provided by `mdat-config`'s `mdat.config.ts` file, plus any additional rules specified in the repository-specific `.mdatrc.ts` file.

### Configuration

To create a `mdat.config.ts` in your project root:

```sh
pnpm exec kpsc-mdat init
```

(Note that this will delete the `mdat` property in your `package.json`!)

_Or_

To create a `mdat` property in `package.json`:

```sh
pnpm exec kpsc-mdat init --location package
```

(Note that this will delete the `mdat.config.ts` file in your project root!)

### CLI

<!-- cli-help -->

#### Command: `kpsc-mdat`

Kitschpatrol's Mdat shared configuration tools.

This section lists top-level commands for `kpsc-mdat`.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc-mdat <command>
```

| Command        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `init`         | Initialize by copying starter config files to your project root or to your package.json file.                                                                                                  |
| `lint`         | Validate that all Mdat content placeholders in your readme.md file(s) have been expanded. Package-scoped. In a monorepo, it will also run in all packages below the current working directory. |
| `fix`          | Expand all Mdat content placeholders in your readme.md file(s). Package-scoped. In a monorepo, it will also run in all packages below the current working directory.                           |
| `print-config` | Print the effective Mdat configuration. Package-scoped.. Searches up to the root of a monorepo if necessary.. Includes configuration provided by the `mdat readme` command.                    |

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

_See the sections below for more information on each subcommand._

#### Subcommand: `kpsc-mdat init`

Initialize by copying starter config files to your project root or to your package.json file.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc-mdat init
```

| Option              | Description         | Type                 | Default  |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- | -------- |
| `--location`        | TK                  | `"file"` `"package"` | `"file"` |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean`            |          |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean`            |          |

#### Subcommand: `kpsc-mdat lint`

Validate that all Mdat content placeholders in your readme.md file(s) have been expanded. Package-scoped. In a monorepo, it will also run in all packages below the current working directory.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc-mdat lint
```

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

#### Subcommand: `kpsc-mdat fix`

Expand all Mdat content placeholders in your readme.md file(s). Package-scoped. In a monorepo, it will also run in all packages below the current working directory.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc-mdat fix
```

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

#### Subcommand: `kpsc-mdat print-config`

Print the effective Mdat configuration. Package-scoped.. Searches up to the root of a monorepo if necessary.. Includes configuration provided by the `mdat readme` command.

Usage:

```txt
kpsc-mdat print-config
```

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

<!-- /cli-help -->

<!-- license -->

## License

[MIT](license.txt) © Eric Mika

<!-- /license -->
