packages/typescript-config/readme.md, before:

<!--+ Warning: Content inside HTML comment blocks was generated by mdat and may be overwritten. +-->

<!-- title -->

# @kitschpatrol/typescript-config

<!-- /title -->

<!-- badges -->

[![NPM Package @kitschpatrol/typescript-config](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@kitschpatrol/typescript-config.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/typescript-config)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

<!-- /badges -->

<!-- description -->

**TypeScript configuration for @kitschpatrol/shared-config.**

<!-- /description -->

## Overview

It's a shared [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) `tsconfig.json` config, plus a command-line tool `kpi-typescript` to perform TypeScript-related validation and linting.

<!-- recommendation -->

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> **You can use this package on its own, but it's recommended to use [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config) instead for a single-dependency and single-package approach to linting and fixing your project.**
>
> This package is included as a dependency in [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config), which also automatically invokes the command line functionality in this package via its `kpi` command

<!-- /recommendation -->

## Setup

> [!NOTE]
>
> The package treats `typescript` as a peer dependency — it expects you to have `typescript` installed in your project.

To use just this TypeScript config in isolation:

1. Install the `.npmrc` in your project root. This is required for correct PNPM behavior:

   ```sh
   pnpm dlx @kitschpatrol/repo-config init
   ```

2. Add the package:

   ```sh
   pnpm add -D @kitschpatrol/typescript-config
   ```

3. Add the starter `tsconfig.json` and `tsconfig.build.json` files to your project root, and add any customizations you'd like:

   ```sh
   pnpm exec kpi-typescript init
   ```

## Usage

You can call `kpi-typescript` directly, or use the script bundled with the config.

Integrate with your `package.json` scripts as you see fit, for example:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "lint": "kpi-typescript lint"
  }
}
```

### Ignoring files

See the `tsconfig.json` [`exclude`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig/#exclude) key.

`.gitignore` files are not ignored.

### Ignoring code

See [the TypeScript directive comments documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-3-9.html#improved-checking-for-js-files) for more details.

Entire files (at top):

`/* @ts-nocheck */`

Next line:

`/* @ts-ignore */`

or

`/* @ts-expect-error - reason */`

### CLI

<!-- cli-help -->

#### Command: `kpi-typescript`

Kitschpatrol's TypeScript shared configuration tools.

This section lists top-level commands for `kpi-typescript`.

Usage:

```txt
kpi-typescript <command>
```

| Command        | Description                                                                                                                             |
| -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `init`         | Initialize by copying starter config files to your project root.                                                                        |
| `lint`         | Run type checking on your project. Package-scoped. In a monorepo, it will also run in all packages below the current working directory. |
| `print-config` | Print the TypeScript configuration for the project. Package-scoped. Searches up to the root of a monorepo if necessary.                 |

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

_See the sections below for more information on each subcommand._

#### Subcommand: `kpi-typescript init`

Initialize by copying starter config files to your project root.

Usage:

```txt
kpi-typescript init
```

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

#### Subcommand: `kpi-typescript lint`

Run type checking on your project. Package-scoped. In a monorepo, it will also run in all packages below the current working directory.

Usage:

```txt
kpi-typescript lint
```

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

#### Subcommand: `kpi-typescript print-config`

Print the TypeScript configuration for the project. Package-scoped. Searches up to the root of a monorepo if necessary.

Usage:

```txt
kpi-typescript print-config
```

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

<!-- /cli-help -->

## Notes

### General

- [tsconfig Cheat Sheet](https://www.totaltypescript.com/tsconfig-cheat-sheet)

### Other shared tsconfig projects

- [tsconfig/bases](https://github.com/tsconfig/bases)
- [sindresorhus/tsconfig](https://github.com/sindresorhus/tsconfig)
- [total-typescript/tsconfig](https://github.com/total-typescript/tsconfig)

### Future integrations

- [Are The Types Wrong](https://github.com/arethetypeswrong/arethetypeswrong.github.io),\
  e.g. `attw --format ascii --no-summary --profile esm-only --pack .`

<!-- license -->

## License

[MIT](license.txt) © Eric Mika

<!-- /license -->

Commit message:

Typescript: Don't run tsc in Svelte projects.

packages/typescript-config/readme.md, after:

<!--+ Warning: Content inside HTML comment blocks was generated by mdat and may be overwritten. +-->

<!-- title -->

# @kitschpatrol/typescript-config

<!-- /title -->

<!-- badges -->

[![NPM Package @kitschpatrol/typescript-config](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@kitschpatrol/typescript-config.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/typescript-config)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

<!-- /badges -->

<!-- description -->

**TypeScript configuration for @kitschpatrol/shared-config.**

<!-- /description -->

## Overview

It's a shared [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) `tsconfig.json` config, plus a command-line tool `kpi-typescript` to perform TypeScript-related validation and linting.

<!-- recommendation -->

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> **You can use this package on its own, but it's recommended to use [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config) instead for a single-dependency and single-package approach to linting and fixing your project.**
>
> This package is included as a dependency in [`@kitschpatrol/shared-config`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kitschpatrol/shared-config), which also automatically invokes the command line functionality in this package via its `kpi` command

<!-- /recommendation -->

## Setup

> [!NOTE]
>
> The package treats `typescript` as a peer dependency — it expects you to have `typescript` installed in your project.

To use just this TypeScript config in isolation:

1. Install the `.npmrc` in your project root. This is required for correct PNPM behavior:

   ```sh
   pnpm dlx @kitschpatrol/repo-config init
   ```

2. Add the package:

   ```sh
   pnpm add -D @kitschpatrol/typescript-config
   ```

3. Add the starter `tsconfig.json` and `tsconfig.build.json` files to your project root, and add any customizations you'd like:

   ```sh
   pnpm exec kpi-typescript init
   ```

## Usage

You can call `kpi-typescript` directly, or use the script bundled with the config.

Integrate with your `package.json` scripts as you see fit, for example:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "lint": "kpi-typescript lint"
  }
}
```

### Ignoring files

See the `tsconfig.json` [`exclude`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig/#exclude) key.

`.gitignore` files are not ignored.

### Ignoring code

See [the TypeScript directive comments documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-3-9.html#improved-checking-for-js-files) for more details.

Entire files (at top):

`/* @ts-nocheck */`

Next line:

`/* @ts-ignore */`

or

`/* @ts-expect-error - reason */`

### CLI

<!-- cli-help -->

#### Command: `kpi-typescript`

Kitschpatrol's TypeScript shared configuration tools.

This section lists top-level commands for `kpi-typescript`.

Usage:

```txt
kpi-typescript <command>
```

| Command        | Description                                                                                                                             |
| -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `init`         | Initialize by copying starter config files to your project root.                                                                        |
| `lint`         | Run type checking on your project. Package-scoped. In a monorepo, it will also run in all packages below the current working directory. |
| `print-config` | Print the TypeScript configuration for the project. Package-scoped. Searches up to the root of a monorepo if necessary.                 |

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

_See the sections below for more information on each subcommand._

#### Subcommand: `kpi-typescript init`

Initialize by copying starter config files to your project root.

Usage:

```txt
kpi-typescript init
```

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

#### Subcommand: `kpi-typescript lint`

Run type checking on your project. Package-scoped. In a monorepo, it will also run in all packages below the current working directory.

Usage:

```txt
kpi-typescript lint
```

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

#### Subcommand: `kpi-typescript print-config`

Print the TypeScript configuration for the project. Package-scoped. Searches up to the root of a monorepo if necessary.

Usage:

```txt
kpi-typescript print-config
```

| Option              | Description         | Type      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------- |
| `--help`<br>`-h`    | Show help           | `boolean` |
| `--version`<br>`-v` | Show version number | `boolean` |

<!-- /cli-help -->

## Notes

### Svelte caveat

The `kpi-typescript lint` command will detect whether it's running in a Svelte project, and treat `lint` as a no-op when that's the case.

This is necessary to prevent unactionable warnings because Svelte [doesn't play well](https://github.com/sveltejs/language-tools/issues/2527) with the underlying TypeScript `tsc` command.

### General

- [tsconfig Cheat Sheet](https://www.totaltypescript.com/tsconfig-cheat-sheet)

### Other shared tsconfig projects

- [tsconfig/bases](https://github.com/tsconfig/bases)
- [sindresorhus/tsconfig](https://github.com/sindresorhus/tsconfig)
- [total-typescript/tsconfig](https://github.com/total-typescript/tsconfig)

### Future integrations

- [Are The Types Wrong](https://github.com/arethetypeswrong/arethetypeswrong.github.io),\
  e.g. `attw --format ascii --no-summary --profile esm-only --pack .`

<!-- license -->

## License

[MIT](license.txt) © Eric Mika

<!-- /license -->
